[approaching footsteps]
Sleeping dragon, active volcano,
crazy rich lady.
[sighs]
I'm sure it'll be fine.
[thrilling music]
[heavy, muffled breathing]
[Kaden] There you are.
[Kaden grunts]
[Mirana] Stay back!
[rumbling]
[theme music]
[pensive music]
Thank you, Bunny.
He's not getting any better.
[pensive music]
Centuries of study, investigation,
and inquiry collected in this Tower,
yet no mention of the entities.
Not so much as a suggestion.
[sighs]
It's no use. There's nothing.
Come down from there.
We need to get creative.
Forgive me, Papa.
Forgive me
for this violation of your mind.
[exhales deeply]
I have to see them as you did.
I have to know what you know.
I won't lose you. No matter what.
[grandiose music]
Cochi.
[groans]
Only my father
could keep me from his thoughts.
Only he would think
to make it so impossible.
Oh, stubborn man.
Mother, I miss you today, every day,
but today especially.
[whimpers]
[panting]
Look, we both know
the princess can handle herself,
but I can't let her wake up
whatever's in there.
Now, if you'll excuse me.
[grunts]
Ouch.
[grunting]
[groans]
[Davion grunts]
[bones cracking]
[panting]
[Kaden grunts]
[breathing heavily]
[Mirana grunts]
[coughs, sniffs]
[tense music]
If she's right about the Eldwyrm,
she's crazy for even going in…
Oh, shit.
[grunting]
[Davion groans]
Gods' folly! Enough!
It will kill everything
in a hundred miles.
It will eat and eat
until its belly is full,
and there won't be a damn thing
anyone can do about it.
[pants]
Please, just let me talk to her.
We can go together, okay?
One quick chat to save hundreds of lives.
Hmph.
[Davion] Oh.
[sighs]
[Davion] Great.
[Davion] Did you hear that?
Hang on. I'll check it out.
Ember wyrmlings ahead.
Would you like to handle them
while I wait?
I just need a minute.
Sorry.
[grunts]
I can't worry about the two of you
running around in there.
I promise, I only wanna talk.
[rocks rumbling]
[Brenin Ri] The attacks
on our lady persist,
poisoning her thoughts, tearing her apart.
Our enemies would destroy her and us.
The aggression from the Helio Imperium
demands an answer.
The Helio Imperium.
We call on you and your father for help.
No.
This is all exactly
as I described weeks ago.
Exactly as I warned.
Panicked violence serves no one.
Panic? Our Lady Mene wills it.
Then Our Lady Mene errs.
It is not our place to question
Our Lady's mind in these matters.
"Question Our Lady's mind."
[chuckles]
Of course, Your Highness.
Of course it is not your place.
Forgive me.
It's mine.
[pensive music]
[Mene] I sent you away, child.
[Filomena] War is a mistake.
The attacks on you
are coming from inside the moon.
The Helio Imperium
could not be responsible.
[scoffs]
Inside? That is not possible.
Yet, I encountered entities there
with power beyond my father.
Beyond the Solar Throne, beyond even you.
Do you still see the ghosts?
[sighs]
At times, more clearly than others.
[Filomena] There are no coincidences,
Goddess.
The ghosts must be projections
of memories,
relevant memories,
your own or someone else's.
Find the source,
and we may unlock all mysteries.
You cannot be sure of that.
No, but even learning I am all wrong
will teach us more than we knew.
My father lies in a healing sleep
from which I fear he will not awaken.
Hidden inside his mind
is relevant knowledge I cannot retrieve.
The key, I believe,
to resolving his condition and yours.
I cannot search my father's mind,
but I could search yours.
Please. I can save you both.
I don't want to be haunted anymore.
[grunts]
Enough games.
I'm not playing a game.
I'm changing the rules.
[breathes heavily]
[growls]
[rumbling]
[Davion] Fuck.
Awakened, by the blind.
Die, you fucking monster!
[growling]
[roars]
[wind whistles]
[growls]
[roars]
[roaring continues]
-[Mirana] No!
-[screaming]
[screeching]
[grunts]
Stop.
Stop it! Please!
[groaning]
[grunting]
[rumbling]
[breathes heavily]
I'm sorry.
[Filomena] Thought, memory,
it's like a river.
It flows in its own direction.
It is easy to drown or become lost.
I cannot control the current,
but I can choose where to enter.
And my memories will talk to you?
As though I am you.
I will appear as you imagine yourself.
The world exactly as you experienced it.
The people you meet, as you remember them,
not automatons,
but in their own way alive.
Real. And the pain?
The pain will be the most real of all.
Your most idle thoughts connect you
to the physical universe
in unpredictable, even dangerous ways.
You could harm me or worse.
It is no small thing
to know the mind of your god.
It is no small thing.
Dyfed, Adara, Idwal.
You thought of them first and most often.
These names are somehow connected
to your recent experiences.
Think of them.
Picture the ghosts, and let me in.
I will enter the river there.
Remember, I am with you.
Follow the moon if you become lost.
If you start to drown, I'll lead you home.
[mystic music]
[birds chirping]
[Filomena sighs]
That was unpleasant.
But, two moons, one broken,
unstable configuration,
but it's broken from the inside.
And these stars. The stars are the same.
From their position, this was weeks ago,
which it could not be.
And Mene's shrine is dark.
Fymryn. There you are.
We thought you left already.
[Filomena grunts softly]
Then I found these.
We couldn't let you leave them behind
after all you went through
stealing them from Selemene.
Selemene? These belong to the Goddess?
[Dyfed] So you keep reminding us.
Come. Adara and Idwal are waiting.
Idwal baked a pie.
Wait. Have there always been two moons?
When did the larger one break?
-How?
-[chuckles softly]
I think you got your nose
too close to those flowers.
You feel well enough to travel?
Uh, it depends on your travel plans.
Mene's light, girl. It's your plan.
[gasps]
[Filomena] The Broken Peaks.
The Tower.
[mellow music]
Home.
More like a tomb.
Oh, it's big. Bigger than it looks.
It's so empty. So dark.
Huh.
-I don't see a sorcerer.
-He's never far.
More memories of impossible things.
No coincidences.
The goddess is leading me somewhere, but…
Wait. The library.
Show me everything related to the moons.
Books, paper, sketches.
[sighs]
I'm not me.
No magic. Easy to forget.
And it all looks the same.
What's different?
That flower.
That book.
The Archronicus. What are you?
"The Mad Moon was no inert rock.
It was more truly a prison."
[gasps]
[Invoker] How did you find my tower?
Quite unexpectedly, I promise you.
[Invoker] No one has found this tower
in a thousand years,
and you simply stumbled upon it?
-A thousand years? That's not--
-[Invoker] You did not answer my question.
You didn't ask a question.
You made a statement,
then behaved as if it were a question.
Terrible habit.
You have a gift for changing the subject.
Who are you?
Fymryn of Coedwig, apparently.
I stole these lotuses,
but I need your help.
The moon, the broken moon,
and the entities inside.
I've seen them, heard them, felt them,
and the creature imprisoned with them.
You must know what they are,
how to contain them, how to stop them.
I know that look, conspicuously blank,
another charming habit.
Listen to me.
They are driving the Goddess to madness,
destroying her from the inside out.
You are no Coedwen.
This might be simpler
if I could speak with Filomena.
Whoever you are, you have erred grievously
speaking her name.
Which name? Filo--
Filomena.
Bunny.
[chuckles]
You're quiet. You're not alive.
[Filomena sighs]
[Filomena] This is all so strange, Bunny.
These seem like memories,
but so many details are different.
Wrong. Two moons, dark shrines,
mother's lotuses.
And this Fymryn?
Perhaps our lady
imagines herself to be her,
but to what end?
Who is she?
[Selemene] You're the thief.
The one who stole my lotuses.
-Mother?
-[Selemene] Mother.
What a strange way
to address your goddess.
-[Filomena] You? You're not the Goddess.
-Perhaps you're right.
For here you are, come to kill me.
What? That's not why I've…
[gasps]
[Selemene] Did you think I didn't know?
Did you think me unprepared?
Please. I don't understand this.
Every night, my daughter
poured her love for me into this.
Every night, she prayed I would return.
Your daughter? Where is your daughter?
Where is Filomena?
-Ask her when you get there.
-No!
[grunts]
It wasn't a prayer.
[shattering]
I see you. I know you. Filomena.
You came with a question,
but not the question
that began your journey.
Your true question
brought you to me, to him.
You cannot break my will
with such an obvious manipulation.
She is the Goddess.
Mene, reborn.
What is happening here?
What are you doing to him?
That is not your true question.
Goddess, fight. End him.
He will destroy everything
to free himself,
remake the universe in his image.
Remake the universe? Of course.
The facts weren't inconsistent,
my understanding was incomplete.
These are memories,
just memories of another universe.
Another life.
Which universe? Whose life?
[suspenseful music]
Fymryn. Fymryn is Mene, just not my Mene.
You hide in hypotheses like him.
Afraid to ask why. Afraid of the truth.
All of this is for you.
You are the cause. You are the reason.
Every question reduced to one conclusion.
And here you are,
adrift at the end of the river.
Alone in the sea.
[sobs]
I'm dead, aren't I?
In this world,
this hollow echo of a world, I'm dead.
Poor girl. How you suffered.
How he failed you.
He failed to save you, and it broke him.
[sobs]
What do you want from me?
I want what you want.
I want to make sense of the universe.
No. No, I… have learned what I can here.
I was right. And… And I was wrong.
The Goddess told me to look to the moon
and she would guide me home.
Here, I am Fymryn.
Fymryn is Mene, so I will look to myself.
I am the moon.
[magical music]
[both gasp]
[both exhale deeply]
Goddess. Goddess, do you…
[Filomena breathes heavily]
I know who I am.
Take me to your father.
[rumbling in distance]
[grunting]
[Davion] Don't worry. I'm here to help.
[grunts]
[Davion] Kaden? What…
Gods.
[grunting]
Go. Warn Dragon Hold.
You're gonna warn them yourself.
Davion. I should have gone back.
[Kaden] I was wrong. The living needed me.
[Kaden groans]
She needed me.
You… You know my name?
My sword, my life.
No. No, I-- I can't.
[grunts]
For Dragon Hold.
[Kaden groans]
[Slyrak] I see you, little mouse.
The mouse who dreamed the sky.
An eye that does not see.
Or perhaps has seen too much.
Father of Fire, do you remember
the world before this one?
A forgotten dream, a whisper.
The Devil of the Moon
killed your brothers and sisters.
He used them to unmake my world,
our world.
Yet the sun rises, the thunder sings.
Please, I need your guidance.
Tell me what I must do.
Nothing.
Nothing?
[Slyrak] There is nothing to do,
nor to be undone.
The flesh illusion you cling to
was no more real than this one.
I don't understand.
My world was lost, destroyed.
You mice are so concerned
with what is yours.
Yet you stare past it all.
You are here. You are alive.
Make peace or choose madness.
[exhales heavily]
-[crackling]
-[grunts]
[groans]
[Davion breathing heavily]
Impossible.
No one could have done this.
None of this is what you think.
You killed Kaden.
Look, I know who he was.
I know what he meant to you.
You don't get to say that.
And you don't get to leave this volcano.
[Mirana] I will not fight you.
I will not harm you. Not ever.
You've already harmed me!
[both grunt]
[groaning]
Let me go!
You were the one person in this world
I hoped would listen.
Marci, let him go.
I told you, I needed Slyrak's guidance.
In truth, I needed you.
The Davion I knew, trusted, loved,
was lost in a life that no longer exists.
I couldn't let this be
the end of his story.
I couldn't let him die for nothing.
[sighs]
This was all a mistake.
Davion, don't follow us.
[pensive music]
[exhales deeply]
[somber music]
[rumbling]
[melancholy music]
[Mene] Leave us, please.
[Filomena] Come, Bunny.
[whimpers]
Goddess.
I remember everything.
I remember what you did.
I'm not here to judge you.
I'm not sure I'm competent to judge.
I'm not even certain of your crime.
You killed us all
and you brought us all back.
You wronged us,
and yet, here we sit, just talking.
I regret nothing.
But you do.
I know because you had to say it.
You can convince anyone of anything,
especially yourself.
Confess. Tell Filomena everything.
Unburden yourself.
She would not understand.
You both have secrets.
The truth needs to begin somewhere.
[somber music]
Show me the Archronicus.
[enchanted music]
[Mirana sighs]
What if I'm wrong about everything?
[Luna] Highness!
[loud screeching]
Thank The Dawn Star I found you.
-Captain? What is it?
-[Luna] War.
The Principality has launched an attack
across the border.
And your father, he needs you.
We all need you.
[closing theme music]